Week 8 Timecard
================
Nurrospody
5/18/2020

**Monday** - 1 hours 21 minutes - Finished week 7 timecard and
reflection; added hyperlinks to make the timecard more useful as a
‘weekly report’. Spent a while on this since I had a lot to say and
think about.  
Also made this timecard and added it to the README.  
Was having a really hard time, so retired early today.

**Tuesday** - 0 hours 0 minutes - see wednesday

**Wednesday** - 0 hours 0 minutes - inadvertently took a break due to
anxiety; had a few really bad mental health days. But the good thing is
that I got the living room to further resemble my floorplan I made for
it: complete with table for me to work at. I had decided that I would
next work on my ILC on a foldable table in the living room, but then I
attempted to pause the living room work before then and work on a TV
tray again instead. I think trying to do that really messed me up. That,
plus trying to adapt to a different living environment while continuing
work as normal at the same time.

**Thursday** - 0 hours 43 minutes - Tried making some sense out of my
kurtosis report . . . I don’t think it’s doing any good until I figure
out how to format it AND have found an answer. Maybe I should switch
direction for now and go back to my GGplots.

**Friday** - 0 hours 15 minutes - ZOOM conference with Faculty; talked
about extending ILC to also include the summer, since I’ll be continuing
study in R anyhow. Talked about how I could collect some kind of data on
the plants in my garden to do stuff with next quarter.

**Saturday** - 0 hours 0 minutes - work description

**Sunday** - 0 hours 0 minutes - Weekend spent on preparing for my final
in other class.

I didn’t really get any actual new work done this week; sucks a lot but
I guess that happens sometimes. If I learned anything, it’s that when I
suddenly change everything in my work environment, it’s smarter to spend
a few days to adapt to the change than it is to force work during that
adaption time.
