Week 14 Timecard
================
Nurrospody
7/13/2020

**Total Time inclusive from 13JUL2020 to 19JUL2020** : 4 hours 30
minutes

**Monday** - 2 hour 30 minutes - created new timecard; added 3 direct
links to README and fixed Week 10 timecard link which wasn’t working.
Started list of what to do with garden data once I’ve finished
collecting it, since I’ve thought about it but the thoughts have just
been floating this whole time. Worked on Chapter 6 report and `apply(),
lapply(), sapply()` commands. Gathered data in the afternoon, put it
into excel.

**Tuesday** - 2 hours - set up the new workspace (got a second monitor);
gathered data. Put data in excel sheet; updated ‘what do’ sheet with
observation about new leaves growing as old ones that will die, are not
quite dead yet. Worked on chapter report.

**Wednesday** - 2 hour 24 minutes - collected data, put into excel
sheet. Realized that there’s actually a lot of material between where
I’m at and ANOVA but I’m supposed to talk about using that in R this
Friday morning. Because I’ve worked with all these concepts before in
other stats classes, I read the book until ANOVA to give myself a
refresher on what everything was while writing down general notes, and
did the actual RStudio practice for ANOVA first. I’ll practice the other
things this weekend, though aside from the goodness of fit test, they
were all super obvious how they work so it’s just making sure I don’t
get a Week 3 again.

**Thursday** -

**Friday** - *NOTE: At 10 AM, meeting about ANOVA with faculty over
ZOOM.*

**Saturday** -

**Sunday** -

**End of Week Comments**:
