Week 12 Worklog
================
Nurrospody
6/29/2020

**Total Time from 29JUN2020 to XJUL2020** : 1 hour 42 minutes

**Monday** - 1 hours 10 minutes - Made new worklog; wrote up end
comments for Week 11 worklog. Decided to record data of: \# of flowers
on pansy plants 1-5 AND length of leaves on Cardoon plants 1-2. Going
out into the garden to record the data for the first time was pretty
fun; I had to think about how to record the data. At first I started
making an Rmarkdown document, but I realized that I wouldn’t be able to
easily use the data if I recorded it that way. Instead, I chose to make
an excel workbook. The workbook has 4 sheets, one for each type of data
(live pansy, dead pansy, cardoon 1, cardoon 2), and each sheet has 6
columns: date, then plant or leaf 1-5. For the cardoons I’m not actually
keeping track of WHICH leaf is how long since it doesn’t matter, but
they still needed to all be in their own column. I’ll need to use
Header=TRUE and specify the sheet number when I do something with my
data practicum. Updated README to contain a direct link to the xlsx
file.

**Tuesday** - 32 minutes - Recorded data from plants; pansies seem to
have many, very short lived flowers, which is weird . . . by seeing the
numbers, I think I’ll get an idea of how fast they come in and if I
missed a dead flower or two. For the cardoons, Cardoon 2 grew faster
than Cardoon 1 today. It also seems that even though I’m not doing it on
purpose, I’m measuring the leaves in the same order as yesterday, so I
actually do get to see how much each leaf grows per day. The pot is
heavy so I may not be able to do it, but I’m curious: if I turn the pot
each day, will the growth be about equal for each, or is Cardoon 2
actually a speedier grower than Cardoon 1?

**Wednesday** -

**Thursday** -

**Friday** -

**Saturday** -

**Sunday** - I almost always take Sunday off.

**End of Week Comments**:
