Week 9 Timecard
================
Nurrospody
5/28/2020

This week starts on Thursday\! I was really busy during the first half
of the week. I had a closed-note final in my other class so had to study
for that and do make-up work, and spent like a whole day grocery
shopping and cooking now that we’re getting to Phase 2 of quarentine
stores re-opening.

**Thursday** - 2 hours 21 minutes - Got started on my Data Visualization
work. Downloaded and required the ggplot2 package (and its
dependencies); got a new dataset; tried to figure out how to make knitr
automatically require needed packages but mostly found latext
resources?, made both a regular R scatterplot and a ggplot scatterplot.
Had to make a miniature version of my new dataset to fix on the
scatterplot axis, since I haven’t learned how to set the axis myself
yet. R Scatterplot only made a big black cube . . .

**Friday** - on-&-off for 4 hours - Made a bunch of scatterplots;
learned how to export my graphs as a png instead of just showing up in
the GUI. Looked around to try and fix a ggplot2 axis scale problem for a
while . . . R-built in scatterplot has a weird problem? This chapter
report is currently showing what I did in the console with cleartext,
rather than trying to knit all the code each time. But I think that more
professional reports rely on showing, not telling, the code; so clearly
something for easier/faster knitting with multiple packages exists. But
all I found was stuff about LATEX and PDF publishing . . . and
automatically downloading LATEX packages.

**Saturday** - 0 hours 0 minutes - work description

**Sunday** - 0 hours 0 minutes - work description
