Week 10 Worklog
================
Nurrospody
6/1/2020

**Monday** - Aprx. 47 minutes - Made new timelog; sent out an email to
the acedemic deans about expanding the ILC? / post-quarter ILC changes;
\*\*So I’m not sure what happened, since I’ve been doing this the whole
2+ months that I’ve been working on this ILC so far, but for some reason
trying to record my ILC time with a stopwatch has become stressful? It’s
like R has become so integrated into my activities that I want to treat
it like everything else I do: come to it, leave from it, ad come back.
Turning the timer on/off used to be totally naturall, but now it’s
difficult. Maybe it has to do with the new work area: since I’m working
in the living room now, and there’s 3 distinct areas to be in the living
room but I randomly change locations all the time.  
It’s week 10 now, so it’s not a big deal if I decide to change it since
week 1 of summer will be ‘new’.

**Tuesday** - Corresponded with dean email.

**Wednesday** - 2 1/2 to 3 hours - Wrote up a first draft for my Summer
2020 ILC, as that’s due on Friday.

**Thursday** - =\> 40 minutes - Corresponded with dean and sponsor
email. Looked into “why is my plot() breaking and just being a plain
black box?” it’s because the built in plot function can’t plot floating
values, only integers. Or at least, it can’t floating hundreds of them,
because it can plot a single double.

**Friday** - Correponded with sponsor email; got my ILC approved on time
before 5PM\!

**Saturday** - =\>2 hours - Typed up a very stern exception request for
my ILC. Appears in conflict with the college policy, my butt. Also,
fnished chapter 5 report part 1. It is much more sensibly organized now.
