Week 6 Timecard
================
Nurrospody
5/4/2020

**Monday** - 3 hours 27 minutes - set up timecard and README hyperlink,
read quite a few pages into the chapter, generated a random distribution
of 70n to work with and did a bunch of basic stats calculations\! Talked
about seeds, tried to make sure everything had a definition appended to
it.

**Tuesday** - 1 hours 53 minutes - finished chapter 4 part 3 report,
worked with finding modes, changing data ‘modes’ (which is apparently
different), learning some things about functions and floating values
(and doubles, which are more accurate numbers than floating values),
learned that for some reason ‘numeric’ data takes up more memory than
‘interger’ data (and also numbers in R are really big?)

**Wednesday** - 2 hours 11 minutes - Started part 4 of chapter 4 report,
made files and updated README. Got back to where I started (the Normal
Distribution section) and found several new statistical concepts I
wasn’t familar with: so I spent time learning about what Cummulative
Distribution Function is, what kurtosis is, and what ‘skewness’ when
measured in numbers is and how to interpret those numbers.

**Thursday** - 0 hours 0 minutes - work description

**Friday** - 0 hours 20 minutes - ZOOM call with faculty\!

**Saturday** - 0 hours 0 minutes - work description

**Sunday** - 0 hours 0 minutes - work description

Even though this week was short on days worked, I got so much work done
since my last conference that I had two and a half reports done since
then\! There was so much material I couldn’t even talk about it all
during the conference, even though I was pretty quickly firing
information off. Guess it goes to show quality of work and quantity (in
hours) of work isn’t neccesarily the same. Learning many new statistical
concepts was a lot of fun.  
I had to step away from work this weekend to do housework. We’re
mid-repurposing the living room to actually be a livable space. We got a
lot of progress done; next we have to get the big trashy furniture
pieces to the dump so we can finish repurposing the space and have
enough maneuverable area to build the living room tent.  
I should have been available on Sunday though . . . but Sunday ran into
a new issue–it was too hot to be productive\!\! It was warm the whole
week, and I guess Sunday was the worst of it. I tried waiting until
evening when it cooled down to work, but by that time it was already
really late. I decided to wake up early on Monday to work before it got
hot.
