Week 5 Timecard
================
Nurrospody
4/27/2020

**Monday** - 3 hours 2 minutes - Typed up end of week reflection for
week 4, finished up loop report, made new timecard. Worked with the
calculator function at the end of chapter 3\`. While reading the chapter
review, I discovered that it didn’t *actually* teach me how to use loops
to print the same character-based message a hundred times . . . so I
figured out how to do it before closing out of chapter 3.

**Tuesday** - 3 hours 12 minutes - Begun reading chapter 4 (descriptive
statistics) and working on chapter 4 report\! Had to go onto an Rtools
instalation adventure to use the xlsl package.

**Wednesday** - Aprx. \~2 hours - fixed an issue wehre I couldn’t
require(xlsx) because the file path didn’t exist, or java wasn’t
installed, or the environment variable wasn’t made in windows . . .

**Thursday** - 1 hours 37 minutes - created second report, continued
work on chapter 4, figured out why images work the way they do in
markdown (it’s a hyperlink, but with no text–instead an \! image)

**Friday** - 15 minutes - typed up summary of the week’s work and sent
it to my sponsor\! Also fixed some GitHut hyperlinks.

**Saturday** - 1 hours 4 minutes - I didn’t have a .sav file to work
with, so I made one\! Writing it was more difficult than reading it
however; reading it wrote weird things to the file. 12 hours, 19 minutes
so far. If I spend another almost 3 hour day tomorrow this will be the
second week on-perfect track\!

**Sunday** - 3 hours 1 minute - Contined work on chapter 4\! This time I
was practicing some basic data processing. Discoverd that when making a
code segment with `{}` you *must* specify the language within the {}
(it’s not optional; I had gotten curious if I could not do it). Ended
part 2 of the CH4 report as it had reached 100 lines. Next the chapter
discusses mean, median, and modes, which will start part 3 of CH4
reports.

Another week of getting my goal 15 hours\! I’ve felt quite productive.
Also I woke up thinking about variables . . . I found that it’s better
for my psyche when my ‘days I take breaks’ are instead days I only work
a tiny bit, like 15 minutes or an hour, than not working at all.  
This is the summary email I sent my sponsor on Friday:

``` email
Sunday after our meeting, I got a new dataset to work with--Riley gave me the .csv file of his CTF performance with the flags he earned, how many points it was, which activity ' category' it was, and the timestamp it was earned!  I realized I accidentally skipped two types of loops--while and repeat, and I got to learn about how awful repeat can be in messing with files when it doesn't stop correctly.  I also learned about proper indent levels for code legibility!

Monday I finished chapter 3 (basics on how to use R) and worked with a calculator function!

Tuesday I started chapter 4 (descriptive statistics), learned about working directories, read and edited a CSV file (using the new dataset) and then got stopped by this big adventure where I couldn't successfully install packages into R.

Wednesday I figured out (with Riley's help) that the reason I couldn't install packages is because the package installer in R is written in Java (and I don't have Java), so we installed that and made JAVA_HOME an environment variable in my windows machine, so that R can actually get cool packages to do stats with.

Thursday I learned how to read and write Excel files, and I learned about what SPSS files are (the social sciences statistical package program).

My other class has had pretty heavy reading this week, so I didn't get to reading more of my Stats Done Wrong book but I should be able to do that this weekend.
Amount of work/hours wise I feel like it's been a pretty good week, about 2 1/2 - 3 hours per day; I wish it didn't take so many hours to solve technical problems the first time they arise though, since it that wasn't the case I could move forward faster!  But I had some really good aha! moments with how some programing things work this week, and I think that's a good sign since I had no real hands-on programing background prior to this class (part of why it's gone so slow) . . . now that it's become more natural after interacting with it for a month, it should be much easier to get into doing the actual stats stuff.  Each section in the book is taking less time to go through now, too; well except for when it's a technical difficulty adventure.
```

Saturday was interesting because I almost didn’t work on Saturday–it was
9 PM ish and I was like “I guess I have to be okay with ‘no work done
today . . .’”. Then I was really curious about spss files and started
working anyway. (then I woke up thinking about variables in the
morning). My partner said, ‘it begins’ in reponse, haha. The R console
is getting more comfortable.  
I haven’t mentioned it, but I’m on the statistics subreddit and
sometimes browse around what those peopole have to say . . . I get
excited when new things I don’t know pop up, and also when things that I
would know the answer to come up. Someone asked how to get a stats job
that wasn’t 9-5 and both contractors and freelancers were mentioned. It
sounds like contractors tend to work more than 40 hours weekly so that’s
absolute no go. I was glad to see freelance mentioned because that’s
what I said I wanted to do, but I wasn’t sure it it . . . actually
existed. And it sounds like doing advanced analysis and coding in R is
the way to go for freelance (as well as having a built up portfolio).
Seems buisness skills would be important, too. (And I’ve always seen the
value in buisness skills). It’ll be an interesting journey to get there.
Just wish I started a little bit younger . . .
