Week 7 Timecard
================
Nurrospody
5/11/2020

**Monday** - 2 hours 38 minutes - set up timecard and README hyperlink,
wrote Week 6 reflection. Wrote up the section on skewness and kurtosis,
complete with their definitions; although I had learned about it last
week, I didn’t actually get to using the equations. I had an issue where
CRAN wasn’t mirroring correctly, so I had to manually reset the
repository in my knit for the first time. I also looked up how to make a
better ‘distribution curve’ graph for my kurtosis example that wasn’t a
historgram or a Q-Q plot that would simply prove normality, so I learned
how to plot a Kernel Density plot.  
Settup chapter 4 part5 report. Only binomial and str() summary() are
left, so this should be the last part of chapter 4.

**Tuesday** - 2 hours 10 minutes - Learned how to work with binomial
distributions in R, used both the book and R’s help() function to figure
out what everything did. Discovered that R doesn’t have a count
function? I could have sworn it did and that I used it, but I couldn’t
find it in any of my reports so I’ll look into it later (I wanted to
count how many heads and how many tails my simulated data got). Made
some quick summaries/structures to officially finish chapter 4. Fixed a
() error in README.

**Wednesday** - 2 hours 33 minutes - I read through the whole of chapter
5 so that I knew what to expect when doing the excercises in R; because
ggplot2 graphics look so much better than the default R graphs–and are
more professional/relevant–I should probably practice making both the
regular AND gg at the same time. E.g. when I practice making line graphs
or scatterplots, I should make both the regular AND gg before moving on,
rather than leaving gg til the end like the book does. It looks like
figuring out the gg coding will be complicated, so pacing it between
more normal graphs should help.  
Then my computer . . . froze up and wouldn’t turn off with the power
button, so I had to wait for it to die on its own, so instead of making
a bunch of graphs, I read chapter 2 of my Statistics Done Wrong book. I
told my partner he should read the chapters so he can be as cynical and
disappointed as me now.

**Thursday** - 0 hours 0 minutes - work description

**Friday** - 0 hours 0 minutes - work description

**Saturday** - 0 hours 0 minutes - work description

**Sunday** - 0 hours 0 minutes - work description

*Note: Kurtosis represents how common extreme values (data on the tails)
are. Investigate why a symmetrically skewed, high kurtosis curve, IS or
IS NOT normal.*
